
MODULE: 2 (CSS and CSS 3)


1. What are the benefits of using CSS?
-> 1) Faster Page Speed. More code means slower page speed.
   2) Better User Experience. CSS not only makes web pages easy on the eye, it also allows 
   for user-friendly formatting.
   3) Quicker Development Time.
   4) Easy Formatting Changes.
   5) Compatibility Across Devices.

2. What are the disadvantages of CSS?
-> Confusion due to many CSS levels. Beginners are more vulnerable to this issue.
   Cross-Browser Issues. Different browsers work differently.
   Security Issues.
   Security is important in today's world driven by technology and data.
   Extra Work for Developers.

3. What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
-> The biggest difference between CSS2 and CSS3 is that CSS3 is now split into different  
   modules. Since each module makes its way through the W3C individually, there's a wider 
   range of browser support. Make sure you test your CSS3 pages in as many browsers and 
   operating systems as possible to ensure compatibility.

4. Name a few CSS style components?
-> Properties: These are human-readable identifiers that indicate which stylistic features 
   you want to modify. For example, font-size , width , background-color .
   Values: Each property is assigned a value. This value indicates how to style the property.

5. What do you understand by CSS opacity?
-> The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which
   content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.

6. How can the background color of an element be changed?
-> To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. Set it to the  
   color name or code you want and place it inside a style attribute. Then add this style 
   attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.

7. How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
-> This task can be achieved by using the background-repeat property that will help us to 
   control the repetition of the image. The background-repeat property in CSS is used to 
   repeat the background image both horizontally and vertically. It also decides whether 
   the background image will be repeated or not.

8. What is the use of the background-position property?
-> The background-position property sets the starting position of a background image. Tip: 
   By default, a background-image is placed at the top-left corner of an element, and 
   repeated both vertically and horizontally.

9. Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
-> The background-attachment property sets whether a background image scrolls with the rest 
   of the page, or is fixed.

10. Why should background and color be used as separate properties?
->  There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The 
    background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the 
    complexity will further increase.

11. How to center block elements using CSS1?
->  So for centering the element you must set left-margin to auto and right-margin to auto.

12. How to maintain the CSS specifications?
->  The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).

13. What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
->  CSS can be added to HTML documents in 3 ways:
    (1) inline - by using the style attribute inside HTML elements.
    (2)Internal - by using a <style> element in the <head> section.
    (3)External - by using a <link> element to link to an external CSS file.

14. What is embedded style sheets?
->  Embedded Stylesheet: It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML document as a 
    whole in one place. This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the 
    CSS properties in the head of your document.

15. What are the external style sheets?
->  An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link 
    within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to 
    access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head 
    section of the page.

16. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
->  one change to the style sheet will change all linked pages.
    you can create classes of styles that can then be used on many different HTML elements.
    consistent look and feel across multiple web pages.

17. What is the meaning of the CSS selector?
->  A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other   
    terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS 
    property values inside the rule applied to them.

18. What are the media types allowed by CSS?
->  continuous or paged.
    visual, audio, speech, or tactile.
    grid (for character grid devices), or bitmap.
    interactive (for devices that allow user interaction), or static (for those that do not).
    all (includes all media types)

19. What is the rule set?
->  Definitions: A table of instructions used by a controlled interface to determine what 
    data is allowable and how the data is handled between interconnected systems.